dev/reference/transaction: add transaction-pessimistic (#1188)
pingcap/docs: dev/reference/transactions/transaction-pessimistic.md

---
title: TiDB Pessimistic Transaction Mode
summary: Learn about TiDB pessimistic transaction mode.
category: reference
---

# TiDB Pessimistic Transaction Mode

By default, TiDB implements an optimistic transaction mode, where the commit might fail for a transaction because of transaction conflicts. To improve the commit success rate, you need to modify the application with an automatic retry logic. With the pessimistic transaction mode, you can avoid this potential issue without the need of adding any retry logic to your application.

> **Warning:**
>

> > Up to now, the pessimistic transaction mode in TiDB is still an **experimental** feature. It is *not recommended to apply it in the production environment*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Pessimistic transactions are an **experimental** feature. We do not recommend use *in production environments*.
```

Author: In a technical document, we should try to avoid using "we" unless we are referring to the whole company, that is, PingCAP.

Reviewer: You are right. s/We do not/It is not/

- Use `BEGIN OPTIMISTIC;` statement to start the transaction in the optimistic transaction mode. Write in comment style as `BEGIN /*!90000 OPTIMISTIC */;` to make it compatible with the MySQL syntax.

- Execute `set @@tidb_txn_mode = 'optimistic';` statement to allow all the transactions processed in this session to be in the optimistic transaction mode.

## Enablement Priority

- `BEGIN PESSIMISTIC;` and `BEGIN OPTIMISTIC;` are statements with the highest priority.

-  Session variable `tidb_txn_mode` has the second highest priority.

- You can configure the `default` file. If the transaction starts with `BEGIN` statement and the value of `tidb_txn_mode` is an empty string, the transaction mode is determined by the `default` in the configuration file.

## Configuration Parameter

The related configuration file is under the `[pessimistic-txn]` file. Besides the `enable` and `default` arguments, you can also configure the following arguments:

- `ttl`

    ```
    ttl = "30s"
    ```

    The default value of the pessimistic locking timeout `ttl` is 30s. The value configured must be between "15s" and "60s". Otherwise, the error will be reported.

>     The transaction will fail if its execution time exceeds the value of `ttl`. If the timeout value is set too high, it might cause long waiting time of write transaction when `tidb-server` fails. If too low, the transaction might be rolled back due to the conflict with other transaction.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    A transaction fails when its execution time exceeds `ttl`. If the value of `ttl` is set too high, the remaining pessimistic lock might block the write transaction for a long time when `tidb-server` is down. If set too low, the transaction might be rolled back by other transactions before it can finish execution.
```

- `max-retry-count`

    ```
    max-retry-count = 256
    ```

>     In the pessimistic transaction mode, the transaction can automatically retry a single statement. You can configure the maximum number of automatically retry to avoid the extreme case that the single statement is run endlessly. Normally you do not need to modify this configuration.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    A pessimistic transaction can automatically retry a single statement. You can specify the maximum retrying times by setting the parameter `max-retry-count` to avoid retrying a statement endlessly in some extreme cases. Normally, you do not need to modify this configuration.
```

## Known Restrictions

> - GAP Lock or Next Key Lock

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Do not support `GAP Lock` or `Next Key Lock`
```

Reviewer: "TiDB does not support Gap Locks or Next Key locks" (I don't believe it should be in backticks. This is a technical term, not a configuration variable.)

>   When the transaction sets the pessimistic lock on the rows in a scanned range to update, other transaction can still insert the new rows without being blocked.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    When multiple rows of data are updated through range conditions in a pessimistic transaction, other transactions can insert data without being blocked in this range.
```

Reviewer: This relates to the previous point about no gap locks or next key locks. It should be under the same point.

> - SELECT LOCK IN SHARE MODE

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Do not support `SELECT LOCK IN SHARE MODE`
```

Reviewer: "TiDB does not support `SELECT LOCK IN SHARE MODE`."

- When a row is placed on a pessimistic lock, other write transaction attempting to modify the row will be blocked and have to wait for the lock to be released.

- When a row is placed on a pessimistic lock, other transactions attempting to read this row will not be blocked and can read the committed record.

- All the locks will be released when the transaction is committed or rolled back.

- Deadlock which occurs in the concurrent transactions will be detected by Deadlock Detector and a DEADLOCK `Error` which is the same as that in MySQL will be returned.

- You can choose optimistic transactional model or pessimistic transactional model in TiDB by specifying the model to adopt.

## How To Enable Pessimistic Transactional Model?

The pessimistic transactional model is disabled by default because it is in testing now. Before enabling this model, adding the following statement in the configuration file:

```
[pessimistic-txn]
enable = true
```

When `enable` is set to `true`, the default transaction model in TiDB is still the optimistic one. You can enable the pessimistic transaction model through the following methods:

> - Use `BEGIN PESSIMISTIC;` statement to start the transaction. Add the code comment like `BEGIN /*!90000 PESSIMISTIC */;` to make the transaction compatible with MySQL syntax.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Execute `BEGIN PESSIMISTIC;`, and you can let the transactions started by the statement go into the pessimistic transaction mode. Add the code comment like `BEGIN /*!90000 PESSIMISTIC */;` to make the transaction compatible with MySQL syntax.
```
Please make sure that the second sentence is technically correct.

> - Execute `set @@tidb_txn_mode = 'pessimistic';` statement to allow the all the transactions of this session to implement the pessimistic transactional model.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Execute `set @@tidb_txn_mode = 'pessimistic';` to let all the transactions executed in the current session go into the pessimistic transaction mode.
```

> - Default to pessimistic transactional model in the configuration file to make all the transactions, except the auto-committed single statement transaction, implement the pessimistic transactional model.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Add the following settings in the configuration file to enable the pessimistic transaction mode by default, which makes all the transactions (except auto-committed transactions that contain a single SQL statement) go into the pessimistic transaction mode.
```

    ```
    [pessimistic-txn]
    enable = true
    default = true
    ```

> If the default locking is pessimistic, use the following methods to implement the optimistic transactional model:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If the pessimistic transaction mode is enabled by default, use the following methods to enter the optimistic transaction mode:
```

> - Use `BEGIN OPTIMISTIC;` statement to start the transaction. You can add the code comment like `BEGIN /*!90000 OPTIMISTIC */;` to make the transaction compatible with MySQL syntax.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Execute `BEGIN OPTIMISTIC;`, and you can let the transactions started by the statement go into the optimistic transaction mode. You can add the code comment like `BEGIN /*!90000 OPTIMISTIC */;` to make the transaction compatible with MySQL syntax.
```
Make sure the second sentence is right.

> - Execute `set @@tidb_txn_mode = 'optimistic';` statement to allow the transaction of the current session to use the optimistic transactional model.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Execute `set @@tidb_txn_mode = 'optimistic';` to let the transactions executed in the current session to enter the optimistic transactional mode.
```

> ## Preference to Enabling the Model

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Enablement priority
```

> - The preferred method is to use the `BEGIN PESSIMISTIC;` or `BEGIN OPTIMISTIC;` statement to implement the transactional model.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- `BEGIN PESSIMISTIC;` and `BEGIN OPTIMISTIC;` are statements with the highest priority.
```

Reviewer 3: Mis-translation

> - You can also set the variable `tidb_txn_mode` of session.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
-  Session variable `tidb_txn_mode` has the second highest priority.
```

---
title: TiDB Pessimistic Transaction Mode

> summary: Learn about TiDB pessimistic transaction mode.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
summary: Learn about the pessimistic transaction mode of TiDB.
```

category: reference
---

# TiDB Pessimistic Transaction Mode

By default, TiDB implements an optimistic transaction mode, where the commit might fail for a transaction because of transaction conflicts. To improve the commit success rate, you need to modify the application with an automatic retry logic. With the pessimistic transaction mode, you can avoid this potential issue without the need of adding any retry logic to your application.

> **Warning:**
>

> > Pessimistic transactions are an **experimental** feature. It is *not recommended to apply it in the production environment*.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> The pessimistic transaction mode of TiDB is an **experimental** feature. It is *not recommended to apply it in the production environment*.
```

## Behaviors of the pessimistic transaction mode

> Pessimistic transactions in TiDB behave similarly to those in MySQL. See the minor differences in [Known Restrictions](#known-restrictions).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Pessimistic transactions in TiDB behave similarly to those in MySQL. See the minor differences in [Known restrictions](#known-restrictions).
```

> - When you perform `SELECT FOR UPDATE` statements, transactions read the last committed data and apply a pessimistic lock on the modified data.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- When you perform `SELECT FOR UPDATE` statements, transactions read the last committed data and apply a pessimistic lock on the data being read.
```

> - When you perform `UPDATE/DELETE/INSERT` statements, transactions read the last committed data and place a pessimistic lock on the modified data.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- When you perform `UPDATE/DELETE/INSERT` statements, transactions read the last committed data to execute on them and apply a pessimistic lock on the modified data.
```

- When a pessimistic lock is applied on a row of data, other write transactions attempting to modify the data are blocked and have to wait for the lock to be released.

- When a pessimistic lock is applied on a row of data, other transactions attempting to read the data are not blocked and can read the committed data.

- All the locks are released when the transaction is committed or rolled back.

- Deadlocks in concurrent transactions can be detected by the deadlock detector. A DEADLOCK error which is the same as that in MySQL is returned.

- TiDB supports both the optimistic transaction mode and pessimistic transaction mode in the same cluster. You can specify either mode for transaction execution.

> ## Methods to enable pessimistic transaction mode

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Methods to enable the pessimistic transaction mode
```

The pessimistic transaction mode is disabled by default because it is currently an experimental feature. Before enabling it, you need to add the following setting in the configuration file:

```
[pessimistic-txn]
enable = true
```

When `enable` is set to `true`, the default transaction mode in TiDB is still optimistic. To enable the pessimistic transaction mode, choose any of the following methods that suits your needs:

> - Use `BEGIN PESSIMISTIC;` statement to start the transaction in the pessimistic transaction mode. Write in comment style as `BEGIN /*!90000 PESSIMISTIC */;` to make it compatible with the MySQL syntax.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Use `BEGIN PESSIMISTIC;` statement to start the transaction in the pessimistic transaction mode. You can write it in comment style as `BEGIN /*!90000 PESSIMISTIC */;` to make it compatible with the MySQL syntax.
```

- Execute the `set @@tidb_txn_mode = 'pessimistic';` statement to allow all the transactions processed in this session to be in the pessimistic transaction mode.

- Enable the pessimistic transaction mode in the configuration file. This allows all transactions (except auto-committed single-statement ones) to adopt the pessimistic transaction mode.

>   ```

Reviewer 4: Incorrect indentation. Please use four spaces. Now the display on the website is not what we want.

    [pessimistic-txn]
    enable = true
    default = true
    ```

If the pessimistic transaction mode is enabled in the configuration file by default, use one of the following methods to adopt the optimistic transaction mode for the transaction:

> - Use `BEGIN OPTIMISTIC;` statement to start the transaction in the optimistic transaction mode. Write in comment style as `BEGIN /*!90000 OPTIMISTIC */;` to make it compatible with the MySQL syntax.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Use `BEGIN OPTIMISTIC;` statement to start the transaction in the optimistic transaction mode. You can write it in comment style as `BEGIN /*!90000 OPTIMISTIC */;` to make it compatible with the MySQL syntax.
```

> - Execute `set @@tidb_txn_mode = 'optimistic';` statement to allow all the transactions processed in this session to be in the optimistic transaction mode.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Execute `set @@tidb_txn_mode = 'optimistic';` to allow all the transactions processed in this session to be in the optimistic transaction mode.
```

## Enablement priority

The three methods to enable the transaction mode are ordered from highest priority to lowest as follows:

- `BEGIN PESSIMISTIC;` or `BEGIN OPTIMISTIC;`.

- The session variable `tidb_txn_mode`.

> -  The `default` configuration item in the configuration file. If you use a regular `BEGIN` statement and set the value of `tidb_txn_mode` to an empty string, then you can use `default` to determine whether to enable the pessimistic or optimistic transaction mode.

Reviewer 4: Remove an extra space after `-`.

> - Configure the parameter `default` in the configuration file. If you use a regular `BEGIN` statement and set the value of `tidb_txn_mode` to an empty string, then you can use `default` to determine whether to enable the pessimistic or optimistic transaction mode.

Reviewer 3: No need to use a verb to indicate priority.

## Configuration parameter

The related configuration parameters are under the `[pessimistic-txn]` category. Besides `enable` and `default`, you can also configure the following parameters:

> - `ttl`

Reviewer 4: The indentation for the `ttl` and `max-retry-count` sections are incorrect.

  ```
  ttl = "30s"
  ```

>   `ttl` is the timeout for the lock of pessimistic transactions. Its default value is "30s" (30 seconds). You must set it to a value between 15~60 seconds, and a lower or higher value can result in an error.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  `ttl` is the timeout for the lock of pessimistic transactions. Its default value is "30s" (30 seconds). You must set it to a value between 15~60 seconds, and a out of range can result in an error.
```

Reviewer 3: Still missing one... You can commit directly.

>   `ttl` is the timeout time for the lock of pessimistic transactions. Its default value is "30s" (30 seconds). You must set it to a value between 15~60 seconds, and a lower or higher value can result in an error.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  `ttl` is the timeout for the lock of pessimistic transactions. Its default value is "30s" (30 seconds). You must set it to a value between 15~60 seconds, and a lower or higher value can result in an error.
```

>      `ttl` is the timeout time for the lock of pessimistic transactions. Its default value is "30s" (30 seconds). You must set it to a value between 15~60 seconds, and a lower or higher value can result in an error.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    `ttl` is the timeout time for the lock of pessimistic transactions. Its default value is "30s" (30 seconds). You must set it to a value between 15~60 seconds, and a lower or higher value can result in an error.
```

    A transaction fails when its execution time exceeds `ttl`. If the value of `ttl` is set too high, the remaining pessimistic lock might block the write transaction for a long time when `tidb-server` is down. If set too low, the transaction might be rolled back by other transactions before it can finish execution.

- `max-retry-count`

    ```
    max-retry-count = 256
    ```

    A pessimistic transaction can automatically retry a single statement. You can specify the maximum retrying times by setting the parameter `max-retry-count` to avoid retrying a statement endlessly in some extreme cases. Normally, you do not need to modify this configuration.

> ## Known Restrictions

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Known restrictions
```

>     A pessimistic transaction can automatically retry a single statement. You can specify the maximum retrying times by setting the parameter `max-retry-count` to avoid retrying a statement endlessly in some extreme cases. Normally, you do not need to modify this configuration.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
A pessimistic transaction can automatically retry a single statement. You can specify the maximum retrying times by setting the `max-retry-count` parameter to avoid retrying a statement endlessly in some extreme cases. Normally, you do not need to modify this configuration.
```
